Update e2e doc in `README.md` (#4503)
matrix-org/matrix-js-sdk: README.md

# End-to-end encryption support

`matrix-js-sdk`'s end-to-end encryption support is based on the [WebAssembly bindings](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-rust-sdk-crypto-wasm) of the Rust [matrix-sdk-crypto](https://github.com/matrix-org/matrix-rust-sdk/tree/main/crates/matrix-sdk-crypto) library.

## Initialization

**Do not use `matrixClient.initCrypto()`. This method is deprecated and no longer maintained.**

To initialize the end-to-end encryption support in the matrix client:

```javascript
// Create a new matrix client
const matrixClient = sdk.createClient({
    baseUrl: "http://localhost:8008",
    accessToken: myAccessToken,
    userId: myUserId,
});

// Initialize to enable end-to-end encryption support.
await matrixClient.initRustCrypto();
```

> ### Use the `CryptoApi`
> 
> The [`CryptoApi`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html) interface is the main entry point for end-to-end encryption.
> 
> To obtain a reference, call [`MatrixClient.getCrypto`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/classes/matrix.MatrixClient.html#getCrypto).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After calling `initRustCrypto`, you can obtain a reference to the 
[`CryptoApi`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html)
interface, which is the main entry point for end-to-end encryption, by calling 
[`MatrixClient.getCrypto`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/classes/matrix.MatrixClient.html#getCrypto).
```

### Secret storage

> You should set up the [secret storage](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.12/client-server-api/#secret-storage) before using the end-to-end encryption. To do this, you need to call [`CryptoApi.bootstrapSecretStorage`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html#bootstrapSecretStorage).

Author: According to https://prettier.io/docs/en/options.html#prose-wrap and our [prettierrc](https://github.com/matrix-org/eslint-plugin-matrix-org/blob/main/.prettierrc.js), we don't.

> `CryptoApi.bootstrapSecretStorage` can be called unconditionally, but it will only set up the secret storage if it is not already set up (unless you use the `setupNewSecretStorage` parameter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`bootstrapSecretStorage` can be called unconditionally: it will only set up the secret storage if it is not already set up (unless you use the `setupNewSecretStorage` parameter).
```

```javascript
const matrixClient = sdk.createClient({
    ...,
    cryptoCallbacks: {

>         getSecretStorageKey: (keys) => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        getSecretStorageKey: async (keys) => {
```

>             // This function should return the secret storage keys returned in `bootstrapSecretStorage#createSecretStorageKey`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // This function should prompt the user to enter their secret storage key.
```

            return mySecretStorageKeys;
        },
    },
});

matrixClient.getCrypto().bootstrapSecretStorage({

>     // This will reset the secret storage if it is already set up.
>     // If you want to keep the current secret storage, you can set `setupNewSecretStorage` to `false`.
>     // If `setupNewSecretStorage` is `true`, you need to fill `createSecretStorageKey`
>     setupNewSecretStorage: true,

Reviewer: We should not recommend `setupNewSecretStorage: true` for the normal case: that is only needed when the user explicitly wants to reset.

```suggestion
```

    // This function will be called if a new secret storage key (aka recovery key) is needed.

>     // You should prompt the user to save the key somewhere, because you will need it to unlock the secret storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // You should prompt the user to save the key somewhere, because they will need it to unlock secret storage
    // in future.
```

    createSecretStorageKey: async () => {
        return mySecretStorageKey;
    },
});
```

> In the example above, we are setting up a new secret storage. The secret storage data will be encrypted using the secret storage key returned in [`createSecretStorageKey`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CreateSecretStorageOpts.html#createSecretStorageKey).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example above will create a new secret storage key if secret storage was not previously set up.
The secret storage data will be encrypted using the secret storage key returned in [`createSecretStorageKey`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CreateSecretStorageOpts.html#createSecretStorageKey).
```

We recommend that you prompt the user to re-enter this key when [`CryptoCallbacks.getSecretStorageKey`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoCallbacks.html#getSecretStorageKey) is called (when the secret storage access is needed).

> Also, if you don't have a [key backup](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.12/client-server-api/#server-side-key-backups) you should create one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Key backup

If the user doesn't already have a [key backup](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.12/client-server-api/#server-side-key-backups) you should create one:
```

```javascript
// Check if we have a key backup.

> // checkKeyBackupAndEnable returns null, there is no key backup.
> const hasKeyBackup = await matrixClient.getCrypto().checkKeyBackupAndEnable() !== null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// If checkKeyBackupAndEnable returns null, there is no key backup.
const hasKeyBackup = await matrixClient.getCrypto().checkKeyBackupAndEnable() !== null;
```

> // First option when setting up the secret storage
> matrixClient.getCrypto().bootstrapSecretStorage({
>     ...,
>     setupNewKeyBackup: !hasKeyBackup,
> });
> 
> // Second option

Reviewer: No need to offer two options
```suggestion
```

> matrixClient.getCrypto().resetKeyBackup();

Reviewer: ```suggestion
await matrixClient.getCrypto().resetKeyBackup();
```

```

> 
> Once the key backup and the secret storage are set up, you don't need to set them up again for all your devices.

Reviewer: I think this is implied by "if you don't have a key backup" above.
```suggestion
```

> ### Set up cross-signing

Reviewer: I think cross-signing needs to be set up before key backup, so that the backup can be signed by the cross-signing key. Swap these two sections.

To set up cross-signing to verify devices and other users, call [`CryptoApi.bootstrapCrossSigning`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html#bootstrapCrossSigning):

```javascript
matrixClient.getCrypto().bootstrapCrossSigning({
    authUploadDeviceSigningKeys: async (makeRequest) => {
        return makeRequest(authDict);
    },
});
```

The [`authUploadDeviceSigningKeys`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.BootstrapCrossSigningOpts.html#authUploadDeviceSigningKeys) callback
is required in order to upload newly-generated public cross-signing keys to the server.

### Verify a new device

Once the cross-signing is set up on one of your devices, you can verify another device with two methods:

> 1. Use `CryptoApi.bootstrapCrossSigning`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use `CryptoApi.bootstrapCrossSigning`.
```

> `bootstrapCrossSigning` will call the [CryptoCallbacks.getSecretStorageKey](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoCallbacks.html#getSecretStorageKey) callback. The device is verified with the private cross-signing keys fetched from the secret storage.

Reviewer: Make this part of the list item, rather than breaking out of the list:

```suggestion
   `bootstrapCrossSigning` will call the [CryptoCallbacks.getSecretStorageKey](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoCallbacks.html#getSecretStorageKey) callback. The device is verified with the private cross-signing keys fetched from the secret storage.
```

## Migrating from the legacy crypto stack to Rust crypto

If your application previously used the legacy crypto stack, (i.e, it called `MatrixClient.initCrypto()`), you will
need to migrate existing devices to the Rust crypto stack.

This migration happens automatically when you call `initRustCrypto()` instead of `initCrypto()`,
but you need to provide the legacy [`cryptoStore`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/matrix.ICreateClientOpts.html#cryptoStore) and [`pickleKey`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/matrix.ICreateClientOpts.html#pickleKey) to [`createClient`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/functions/matrix.createClient.html):

```javascript
// You should provide the legacy crypto store and the pickle key to the matrix client in order to migrate the data.
const matrixClient = sdk.createClient({
    cryptoStore: myCryptoStore,
    pickleKey: myPickleKey,
    baseUrl: "http://localhost:8008",
    accessToken: myAccessToken,
    userId: myUserId,
});

// The migration will be done automatically when you call `initRustCrypto`.
await matrixClient.initRustCrypto();
```

> To follow the migration progress, you can listen to the `CryptoEvent.LegacyCryptoStoreMigrationProgress` event:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow the migration progress, you can listen to the [`CryptoEvent.LegacyCryptoStoreMigrationProgress`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/enums/crypto_api.CryptoEvent.html#LegacyCryptoStoreMigrationProgress) event:
```

```javascript
// When progress === total === -1, the migration is finished.
matrixClient.on(CryptoEvent.LegacyCryptoStoreMigrationProgress, (progress, total) => {
    ...
});
```

> After the migration is finished, you can remove the legacy crypto store and the pickle key from the matrix client creation.
> 

Reviewer: There's no real way to tell that the migration is finished before creating the client, so this doesn't work in practice.

```suggestion
```

> The Rust crypto is not supported in a lot of deprecated methods of [`MatrixClient`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/classes/matrix.MatrixClient.html). If you use them, you should migrate to the [`CryptoApi`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html). Also, the legacy `MatrixClient.crypto` object is not available anymore, you should use `MatrixClient.getCrypto()` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Rust crypto stack is not supported in a lot of deprecated methods of [`MatrixClient`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/classes/matrix.MatrixClient.html). If you use them, you should migrate to the [`CryptoApi`](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html). Also, the legacy `MatrixClient.crypto` object is not available any more: you should use `MatrixClient.getCrypto()` instead.
```

    // If `setupNewSecretStorage` is `true`, you need to fill `createSecretStorageKey`
    setupNewSecretStorage: true,
    // This function will be called if `setupNewSecretStorage` is `true`.
    // You should remember the key you return here, because you will need it to unlock the secret storage.
    // This key should implement the https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.GeneratedSecretStorageKey.html interface.
    createSecretStorageKey: () => {
        return mySecretStorageKey;
    },
});
```

In the example above, we are setting up a new secret storage. The secret storage data will be encrypted using the secret storage key returned in `createSecretStorageKey`.
You should remember this key because when access to the secret storage is needed, the crypto moduel is expecting the `getSecretStorageKey` to return this key.

-   [CryptoCallbacks#getSecretStorageKey](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoCallbacks.html#getSecretStorageKey)
-   [CryptoApi#bootstrapSecretStorage](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html#bootstrapSecretStorage)

> Also, if you don't have a [key backup](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.12/client-server-api/#server-side-key-backups) you should create one:

Author: There is no `CryptoApi.setupKeyBackup` (only in `backupManager`).
You mean perhaps `CryptoApi.resetKeyBackup`?

> Also, if you don't have a [key backup](https://spec.matrix.org/v1.12/client-server-api/#server-side-key-backups) you should create one:

Reviewer: > To know if have a key backup at the moment of the bootstrap which is at the initialisation of the application, I wonder if `CryptoApi.getActiveSessionBackupVersion` is enough (is automatic key backup enabled?) or I need to do `CryptoApi.checkKeyBackupAndEnable`.

Yes probably `checkKeyBackupAndEnable`

> There is no `CryptoApi.setupKeyBackup` (only in `backupManager`). You mean perhaps `CryptoApi.resetKeyBackup`?

yes, sorry!

To migrate from the legacy crypto to the new crypto:

```javascript
// You should provide the legacy crypto store and the pickle key to the matrix client in order to migrate the data.
const matrixClient = sdk.createClient({
    cryptoStore: myCryptoStore,
    pickleKey: myPickleKey,
    baseUrl: "http://localhost:8008",
    accessToken: myAccessToken,
    userId: myUserId,
});

// The migration will be done automatically when you call `initRustCrypto`.
await matrixClient.initRustCrypto();
```

To follow the migration progress, you can listen to the `CryptoEvent.LegacyCryptoStoreMigrationProgress` event:

```javascript
// When progress === total === -1, the migration is finished.
matrixClient.on(CryptoEvent.LegacyCryptoStoreMigrationProgress, (progress, total) => {
    ...
});
```

After the migration is finished, you can remove the legacy crypto store and the pickle key from the matrix client creation.

## Use the `CryptoApi`

The `CryptoApi` is the main entry point for end-to-end encryption.

```javascript
// If the `CryptoApi` object is `undefined`, the end-to-end encryption is not enabled.
// You must call `initRustCrypto` before.
matrixClient.getCrypto();
```

> The CryptoApi documentation is available [here](https://matrix-org.github.io/matrix-js-sdk/interfaces/crypto_api.CryptoApi.html).

Reviewer: this section feels a bit thin. can we just slot this in after the bit where we first mention calling `initRustCrypto`?
